In the last few videos, we created and used generic classes whose methods may or may not have used
the generic classes type parameters as method, parameter types or return types, you can also introduce
generics into a method in a class, whether the class is itself generic or not, by including top parameters
in the methods declaration, the scope of the type, parameter or parameters will be limited to the
method where it's declared and not the entire class.
And like top parameters at the class level type parameters that the method level can be used in both
static and non static methods.
So let's first compare a generic method declaration to a non generic one.
Switching over to the official specification and it says that a method without generic types is declared
in the following way will swing back to the slight.
I can see that we've got a declaration, we've got a method modifier method header and method body,
and the method header is described as the result, the method decorator and throws.
Now for a generic method, it's the method header section, which alters slightly and it's shown as
follows anatomy.
Be discussing annotations later in the course.
So you've got two parameters.
Annotation, result, methodic Lorretta and throws at its simplest generic method may look as follows.
So we've got a t an angle brackets t get value in parentheses t if the type and the parameter name then
we've got curly Brice's return t semicolon within those curly braces.
So here t an angle brackets represents the type parameter section to find in the specification.
The top parameters are declared after the method modifiers and before the method return type an example
with modifiers, they've got public tea and Agel brackets void.
Do something in parentheses.
We've got tea is in the top and lowercase t is the parameter.
Name the left-to-right curly braces.
To invoke a generic method.
You can pass the type in the following way using the type argument to clear that angle.
Brackets, as you can see there immediately prior to the method name as the example below demonstrates
got my object dot and string in angle brackets do something parentheses and any parameters.
In this case we've got hello, pass this a string and obviously semicolon at the end of the line.
There are in many cases, the type can be inferred by the compiler, by the context of the code, and
you can invoke a generic method, as he would a non generic method.
I would discuss typing in more detail later.
Also switching back to intelligence.
Let's look at a generic class and a class with generic methods in a code sample.
So we need a new class for this.
I'm going to go ahead and create it.
I will call this new class generic comparison.
So the code of Pasted In consists of three classes, the first one generics class as a single type parameter
T. So you can say in ankle brackets on line 12.
Now, the class type parameter is used in an instance filled declaration and 15, the constructor online,
18.
That's used as a parameter type declaration, as you can see there.
And then looking at line twenty five, it's an instance method return type declaration.
But so moving on down, we've got another class here called non generic class and that's using generic
methods.
Although all three of these methods which are put on screen now, they all declare a type parameter
bracket.
As you can see, there is actually no relationship between T across methods.
So in other words, you can pass the string to one method and an object of any other type to the other
methods.
So specifically, looking at these methods, we've got a constructor using type T there, line thirty
five.
We've got a static method using the top line forty two and in its method on line forty nine is in the
top tier as well.
So only that further.
We've got another class here, generics comparison, but it's kind of made method.
So what we're doing here is we're creating several instances of the generic class using different type
arguments.
We're also creating several instances of the non generic class as we scroll down a bit further, using
different type arguments for the generic constructor, using both explicit type assignment as well as
in third type mode.
Of fell on down on online 74 when breaking the static general method on the non generic class with explicit
type assignment.
And lastly, we're invoking the generic method on the non generic class.
They can see that they their in 67, but let's run this.
OK, there's the output so far, but what we want to do now is we want to make a change to the generic
instance method.
That's why I'm here a lot, 49, and what I'm going to do is change T to you and what I'm going to do
is actually post because I want to show you a potential problem that's going to come up.
I'm pacing in the car, and I can see by doing this, I have produced a compiler error on the single
argument of the method which I've left, declared Tooltip T..
So early in the video, I said that T has no meaning outside of the methods that declare it on a non
generic class.
So although is declared for the other two methods, it's got no meaning for this method when we change
the top from to you.
So I'm just going to go back and revert the code to how it was previously.
As I scrolling up, we're going to add some code to the generics class, and that's this one up here
on line 12, so I'm going to play some kind of right down the bottom.
They can say by doing that, it's resulted in two compile errors, SUB-STANDARD previously, and it
bears repeating here that you cannot use a generic class type parameters in static field declarations
or static method declarations.
And you can see we're getting an everywhere generics class that this cannot be reference from a static
context.
So let's fix this.
I'm going to remove the static field.
You know, we can't do that.
We can fix this method, a generic class static method.
Pasting the code.
So what I've done here is I've made a static method, a generic method declaring a top parameter T,
as you can see there, and obviously there's no compiler errors.
It's very important to remember that the top parameter T here, again, has no relationship to the type
to find a base level.
Up there on line 12.
That would have been better for future maintainers of the code if it used a different parameter, top
code.
So we're going to change the references of T here to you.
So make it clearer to future maintainers of the code.
So what we're doing this, we're using a different parameter type to make it completely clear for future
maintainers of the code that the tarps were defining here in line.
Twenty nine have no relationship to the top parameter T that's used elsewhere in this class.
All right.
Let's end the video here.
And in the next one, we'll look at a more advanced example.
So we'll see you in the next video.